Cargo Tracker blog post staging (#2451)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-08-24-open-liberty-with-cargo-tracker.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Try out Cargo Tracker, an enterprise-level Jakarta EE application, with Open Liberty"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ocseal
author_github: https://github.com/ocseal
seo-title: Try out Cargo Tracker, an enterprise-level Jakarta EE application, with Open Liberty - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: Experience Open Liberty in an industry environment by using a Liberty server to run Cargo Tracker, an open-source application built to simulate real-world implementations of Jakarta EE.

> blog_description: "Experience Open Liberty in an industry environment by using a Liberty server to run Cargo Tracker, an open-source application built to simulate real-world implementations of Jakarta EE."

Reviewer: I think that's a bit of an unusual phrasing ...
Maybe change:

in an industry environment
 =>
in an industrial environment

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= Try out Cargo Tracker, an enterprise-level Jakarta EE application, with Open Liberty
Chanun Ong <https://github.com/ocseal>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

As one of the top Java framework choices for enterprise-level applications, Jakarta EE can be found at the center of projects all over the globe. The https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/cargotracker/[Cargo Tracker] open-source application was designed to replicate a complex enterprise application by utilizing core Jakarta EE features with professional development standards. Now, you can get a taste of Open Liberty in an industry environment by running Cargo Tracker with an Open Liberty server all on your own computer.

== The Cargo Tracker application

> Cargo Tracker simulates an industry-developed freight tracking web application built with Jakarta EE 8 and domain-driven design principles. The application uses multiple key Jakarta EE features, including Faces, CDI, enterprise beans, bean validation, REST, and JSON binding. Persistence is also implemented along with batching and JMS messaging. 

Reviewer: "JMS messaging"  
 =>
"Jakarta messaging"

> Functionally, the application is set up to book, track, update, and route cargo objects. Messaging events are logged to update cargo locations while persistence ensures that cargo status is not changed or removed when the application is shut down. Each portion of Cargo Tracker represents a step in a real-life shipment process: the customer tracks their cargo using the Public Tracking interface, the shipping company schedules and routes deliveries using the Administration interface, and handlers in ports log arriving and departing cargo using the Mobile Event Logger. 

Reviewer: and handlers in ports log arriving
 =>
and port handlers log arriving
?
(small phrase simplification)

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-home.png[Cargo Tracker Home Page,width=70%,align="center"]

Cargo Tracker was originally developed to work with the Payara runtime and had not been previously used with Open Liberty, but the application's functionality was perfectly preserved after the server switch. There were no issues across operating systems, as Ubuntu 18.04, Windows 10, and Mac OS Monterey 12.4 were all able to run Cargo Tracker identically. 

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-map.png[Cargo Tracker Map,width=70%,align="center"]

== Running Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty yourself

> Feel free to give Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty a try on your own! Cargo Tracker supports Java SE 8, 11, and 17 — https://developer.ibm.com/languages/java/semeru-runtimes/downloads[IBM Semeru Runtime] is preferred when using Open Liberty. Before cloning the application to your machine, install any required JDKs and make sure that your JAVA_HOME is compatible. To access the repository remotely you'll need to install https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git[Git] if you haven't already. Finally, you will need to install https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[Maven] as it is required to build and run the application. 

Reviewer: "make sure that your JAVA_HOME is compatible"

Do you mean "export JAVA_HOME=...."  to the location?  Or what did you mean?

[source]
----
mvn -P openliberty liberty:dev
----
 
The application should start without any thrown exceptions, and the startup messages such as the message-driven bean activation warnings are cosmetic and can be safely ignored. 

[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-maven-start.png[Cargo Tracker Maven Output,width=70%,align="center"]

== Eclipse IDE setup

You'll need Eclipse JEE version 2022-03 or later to run the application. After cloning the project, import it into Eclipse by selecting the "File" menu and then "Import". Choose the "Existing Maven Projects" option inside the import menu. In the next step, select the repository base folder as the root directory and check the pom.xml under the "Projects" tab. Select "Finish" to complete the import process. 

[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-import.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Import,width=60%,align="center"]

[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-config.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Configuration,width=60%,align="center"]

> If you're working inside the Eclipse IDE, you'll need to install IBM's Liberty Tools plugin. Following the steps in the https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/blob/main/docs/installation/installation.md[installation guide] should allow you to access some convenient new resources and operations specific to Liberty. There's a https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/08/01/liberty-tools-eclipse.html[blog post] that covers the plugin's capabilities in more detail, but for now we'll focus on the Liberty Dashboard. To run Cargo Tracker you'll need to right-click the `cargo-tracker` project and select the "Start with Parameters" option, which is second from the top. Then, you'll need to set the Open Liberty profile by typing in `-Popenliberty`. 

Reviewer: Liberty Tools plugin
=>
Liberty Tools feature.

Reviewer: the plugin's capabilities =>  the feature's capabilities

[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-start.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Start,width=60%,align="center"]
[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-parameters.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Parameters,width=60%,align="center"]

> After the Open Liberty profile is activated, the application should start inside the Eclipse console.

Reviewer: console => terminal

---
layout: post
title: "Try out Eclipse Cargo Tracker, an enterprise-level Jakarta EE application, with Open Liberty"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ocseal
author_github: https://github.com/ocseal
seo-title: Try out Eclipse Cargo Tracker, an enterprise-level Jakarta EE application, with Open Liberty - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: Experience Open Liberty in an industrial environment by using a Liberty server to run Eclipse Cargo Tracker, an open-source application built to simulate real-world implementations of Jakarta EE.
blog_description: "Experience Open Liberty in an industrial environment by using a Liberty server to run Eclipse Cargo Tracker, an open-source application built to simulate real-world implementations of Jakarta EE."

> open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/cargo-tracker-home.png
```

---
= Try out Eclipse Cargo Tracker, an enterprise-level Jakarta EE application, with Open Liberty
Chanun Ong <https://github.com/ocseal>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> As one of the top Java framework choices for enterprise-level applications, Jakarta EE can be found at the center of projects all over the globe. The https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/cargotracker/[Eclipse Cargo Tracker] open-source application was designed to replicate a complex enterprise application by utilizing core Jakarta EE features with professional development standards. Now, you can get a taste of Open Liberty in an industrial environment by running Cargo Tracker with an Open Liberty server all on your own computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As one of the top Java framework choices for enterprise-level applications, Jakarta EE is at the center of projects all over the globe. The https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/cargotracker/[Eclipse Cargo Tracker] open-source application was designed to replicate a complex enterprise application by using core Jakarta EE features with professional development standards. Now, you can get a taste of Open Liberty in an industrial environment by running Cargo Tracker with an Open Liberty server, all on your own computer.
```

== The Cargo Tracker application

> Cargo Tracker simulates an industrially-developed freight tracking web application built with Jakarta EE 8 and domain-driven design principles. The application uses multiple key Jakarta EE features, including Faces, CDI, Enterprise Beans, Bean Validation, RESTful Web Services, and JSON Binding. Persistence is also used along with Batch and Messaging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cargo Tracker simulates an industrially-developed freight tracking web application built with Jakarta EE 8 and domain-driven design principles. The application uses key Jakarta EE features, including Faces, CDI, Enterprise Beans, Bean Validation, RESTful Web Services, and JSON Binding. It also uses Persistence, along with Batch and Messaging.
```

> Cargo Tracker simulates an industrially-developed freight tracking web application built with Jakarta EE 8 and domain-driven design principles. The application uses multiple key Jakarta EE features, including Faces, CDI, enterprise beans, bean validation, REST, and JSON binding. Persistence is also implemented along with batching and Jakarta messaging. 

Reviewer: Hmm... lowercase vs. uppercase , proper vs. common noun.... Since this is a Jakarta-centric sample I think we're highlighting the Jakarta technologies: https://jakarta.ee/specifications/  and so it should use proper nouns more like: 

"The application uses multiple key Jakarta EE features, including Faces, CDI, Enterprise Beans, Bean Validation, RESTful Web Services, and JSON Binding.  Persistence is also used along with Batch and Messaging."

Since we lead into it mentioning Jakarta I think you can omit it next to each technology.

> Functionally, the application is set up to book, track, update, and route cargo objects. Messaging events are logged to update cargo locations while persistence ensures that cargo status is not changed or removed when the application is shut down. Each portion of Cargo Tracker represents a step in a real-life shipment process: the customer tracks their cargo using the Public Tracking interface, the shipping company schedules and routes deliveries using the Administration interface, and port handlers log arriving and departing cargo using the Mobile Event Logger. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cargo Tracker books, tracks, updates, and routes cargo objects. Messaging events are logged to update cargo locations, while persistence ensures that cargo status is not changed or removed when the application is shut down. Each portion of Cargo Tracker represents a step in a real-life shipment process: the customer tracks their cargo using the Public Tracking interface, the shipping company schedules and routes deliveries using the Administration interface, and port handlers log arriving and departing cargo using the Mobile Event Logger. 
```

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-home.png[Cargo Tracker Home Page,width=70%,align="center"]

Cargo Tracker was originally developed to work with the Payara runtime and had not been previously used with Open Liberty, but the application's functionality was perfectly preserved after the server switch. There were no issues across operating systems, as Ubuntu 18.04, Windows 10, and Mac OS Monterey 12.4 were all able to run Cargo Tracker identically. 

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-map.png[Cargo Tracker Map,width=70%,align="center"]

> == Running Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty yourself

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Try out Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty 
```

> Feel free to give Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty a try on your own! Cargo Tracker supports Java SE 8, 11, and 17 — https://developer.ibm.com/languages/java/semeru-runtimes/downloads[IBM Semeru Runtime] is preferred when using Open Liberty. Before cloning the application to your machine, install any required JDKs and ensure that your JAVA_HOME system variable is set to a compatible version. To access the repository remotely you'll need to install https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git[Git] if you haven't already. Finally, you will need to install https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[Maven] as it is required to build and run the application. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Feel free to give Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty a try on your own! Cargo Tracker supports Java SE 8, 11, and 17 — https://developer.ibm.com/languages/java/semeru-runtimes/downloads[IBM Semeru Runtime] is preferred when using Open Liberty. Before cloning the application to your machine, install any required JDKs and ensure that your JAVA_HOME system variable is set to a compatible version. To access the repository remotely, you'll need to install https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git[Git] if you haven't already. Finally, you will need to install https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[Maven] to build and run the application. 
```

> You can clone the https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/cargotracker/tree/liberty-experimental[Open Liberty branch of the Cargo Tracker project] to your local machine by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can clone the Open Liberty branch of the Cargo Tracker project to your local machine by running:
```

[source]
----
git clone https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/cargotracker.git -b liberty-experimental
----

> You can also follow the link above to take a peek at the code. To get started, you can use either one of the following setup methods: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also visit the https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/cargotracker/tree/liberty-experimental[ Git repository for the Open Liberty branch of the Cargo Tracker project] to take a peek at the code. 

To get started, choose one of the following setup methods: 
```

* <<maven_setup, Maven command line setup>> 
* <<eclipse_setup, Eclipse IDE setup>>

[#maven_setup]
== Maven command line setup

After cloning the project, you can quickly start Cargo Tracker through the command line with Maven. Navigate to the project base directory (where the pom.xml file is located) and run:

[source]
----
mvn -P openliberty liberty:dev
----
 

> The application should start without any thrown exceptions, and the startup messages such as the message-driven bean activation warnings are cosmetic and can be safely ignored. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application should start without any thrown exceptions. Startup messages, such as the message-driven bean activation warnings, are cosmetic and can be safely ignored. 
```

[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-maven-start.png[Cargo Tracker Maven Output,width=70%,align="center"]

[#eclipse_setup]
== Eclipse IDE setup

> You'll need Eclipse IDE version 2022-03 or later to run the application (either the "Eclipse IDE for Java Developers" or "Eclipse IDE for Enterprise Java and Web Developers" packages will work). After cloning the project, import it into Eclipse by selecting the "File" menu and then "Import". Choose the "Existing Maven Projects" option inside the import menu. In the next step, select the repository base folder as the root directory and check the pom.xml under the "Projects" tab. Select "Finish" to complete the import process. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You'll need Eclipse IDE version 2022-03 or later to run the application. Either the "Eclipse IDE for Java Developers" or "Eclipse IDE for Enterprise Java and Web Developers" package will work. 

After you clone the project, import it into Eclipse by selecting the **File** menu and then **Import**. Choose the **Existing Maven Projects** option inside the Import menu. 

[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-import.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Import,width=60%,align="center"]

In the next step, select the repository base folder as the root directory and check the pom.xml under the **Maven Projects** tab. Select **Finish** to complete the import process. 

[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-config.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Configuration,width=60%,align="center"]
```

> [.img_border_dark]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-import.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Import,width=60%,align="center"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> [.img_border_dark]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-config.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Configuration,width=60%,align="center"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> If you're working inside the Eclipse IDE, you'll need to install IBM's Liberty Tools feature. Following the steps in the https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/blob/main/docs/installation/installation.md[installation guide] should allow you to access some convenient new resources and operations specific to Liberty. There's a https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/08/01/liberty-tools-eclipse.html[blog post] that covers the feature's capabilities in more detail, but for now we'll focus on the Liberty Dashboard. To run Cargo Tracker you'll need to right-click the `cargo-tracker` project and select the "Start..." option, which is second from the top. You can then run dev mode with the Open Liberty profile active by typing in `-Popenliberty`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're working inside the Eclipse IDE, you'll need to install IBM's Liberty Tools feature. Follow the steps in the https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/blob/main/docs/installation/installation.md[installation guide] to access some convenient new resources and operations that are specific to Liberty. This https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/08/01/liberty-tools-eclipse.html[blog post] covers the feature's capabilities in more detail, but for now we'll focus on the Liberty Dashboard. 

To run Cargo Tracker, right-click the `cargo-tracker` project and select the **Start...** option, which is second in the list. 
[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-start.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Start,width=60%,align="center"]

You can then run dev mode with the Open Liberty profile active by typing in `-Popenliberty`. 
[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-parameters.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Parameters,width=60%,align="center"]

```

> If you're working inside the Eclipse IDE, you'll need to install IBM's Liberty Tools feature. Following the steps in the https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/blob/main/docs/installation/installation.md[installation guide] should allow you to access some convenient new resources and operations specific to Liberty. There's a https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/08/01/liberty-tools-eclipse.html[blog post] that covers the feature's capabilities in more detail, but for now we'll focus on the Liberty Dashboard. To run Cargo Tracker you'll need to right-click the `cargo-tracker` project and select the "Start with Parameters" option, which is second from the top. You can then run dev mode with the Open Liberty profile active by typing in `-Popenliberty`. 

Reviewer: "Start with Parameters" option =>
"Start..." option

My apologies if I gave you this name .  The menu item text is simply "Start..." but when we discuss it we refer to it as "start with parameters" (probably better to just match the text of the menu).

> [.img_border_dark]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: remove duplicated image

> image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-start.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Start,width=60%,align="center"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: remove duplicated image

> [.img_border_dark]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: remove duplicated image

> image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-parameters.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Parameters,width=60%,align="center"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: remove duplicated image

After starting with the custom parameters for the Open Liberty profile, the application should start inside the Eclipse terminal.

=== Avoid trouble - set environment variables

> Since the Liberty Tools feature uses the well-known environment variables: **PATH** and **JAVA_HOME**, you will encounter problems if these variables are not set within your Eclipse IDE process, e.g. the `mvn` executable might not be found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the Liberty Tools feature uses the well-known environment variables `PATH` and `JAVA_HOME`, you will encounter problems if these variables are not set within your Eclipse IDE process, e.g. the `mvn` executable might not be found.
```

Reviewer 2: use monospace for code entities as opposed to bold, which should be used for UI elements

> One tip to address this on Mac OS in particular is to restart Eclipse through Finder by right-clicking your Eclipse application and choosing "Show Package Contents". Enter the newly displayed Contents folder, select MacOS, and then run Eclipse by clicking the executable. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One tip to address this on Mac OS in particular is to restart Eclipse through Finder by right-clicking your Eclipse application and choosing **Show Package Contents**. Enter the newly displayed Contents folder, select MacOS, and then run Eclipse by clicking the executable. 
```

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-macos.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse MacOS,width=60%,align="center"]

> == After starting the application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Access the application
```

> Once the application is running, you can access it through a browser of your choice at http://localhost:8080/cargo-tracker/ and start experimenting with it. You can track routed cargo through the Public Tracking interface, book and route cargo through the Administration interface (shown below), and update cargo object events using the Mobile Event Logger. You can stop the server at any time by using `CTRL-C`. For more information on the usage of each of the interfaces, you can check out the https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/cargotracker/blob/liberty-experimental/README.md#exploring-the-application["Exploring the Application"] section of the project README. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the application is running, you can access it through a browser of your choice at http://localhost:8080/cargo-tracker/ and start experimenting with it. You can track routed cargo through the Public Tracking interface, book and route cargo through the Administration interface (shown in the following image), and update cargo object events using the Mobile Event Logger. You can stop the server at any time by using `CTRL-C`. 

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-dashboard.png[Cargo Tracker Dashboard,width=70%,align="center"]

For more information about of each of the interfaces, can check out the https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/cargotracker/blob/liberty-experimental/README.md#exploring-the-application[Exploring the Application] section of the project README. 
```

> image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-dashboard.png[Cargo Tracker Dashboard,width=70%,align="center"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
= Try out Eclipse Cargo Tracker, an enterprise-level Jakarta EE application, with Open Liberty
Chanun Ong <https://github.com/ocseal>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

As one of the top Java framework choices for enterprise-level applications, Jakarta EE is at the center of projects all over the globe. The https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/cargotracker/[Eclipse Cargo Tracker] open-source application was designed to replicate a complex enterprise application by using core Jakarta EE features with professional development standards. Now, you can get a taste of Open Liberty in an industrial environment by running Cargo Tracker with an Open Liberty server, all on your own computer.

== The Cargo Tracker application

Cargo Tracker simulates an industrially-developed freight tracking web application built with Jakarta EE 8 and domain-driven design principles. The application uses key Jakarta EE features, including Faces, CDI, Enterprise Beans, Bean Validation, RESTful Web Services, and JSON Binding. It also uses Persistence, along with Batch and Messaging.

> Cargo Tracker books, tracks, updates, and routes cargo objects. Messaging events are logged to update cargo locations while persistence ensures that cargo status is not changed or removed when the application is shut down. Each portion of Cargo Tracker represents a step in a real-life shipment process: the customer tracks their cargo using the Public Tracking interface, the shipping company schedules and routes deliveries using the Administration interface, and port handlers log arriving and departing cargo using the Mobile Event Logger. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cargo Tracker books, tracks, updates, and routes cargo objects. Messaging events are logged to update cargo locations, while persistence ensures that cargo status is not changed or removed when the application is shut down. Each portion of Cargo Tracker represents a step in a real-life shipment process: the customer tracks their cargo using the Public Tracking interface, the shipping company schedules and routes deliveries using the Administration interface, and port handlers log arriving and departing cargo using the Mobile Event Logger. 
```

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-home.png[Cargo Tracker Home Page,width=70%,align="center"]

> Cargo Tracker was originally developed to work with the Payara runtime and had not been previously used with Open Liberty, but the application's functionality was perfectly preserved after the server switch. There were no issues across operating systems, as Ubuntu 18.04, Windows 10, and Mac OS Monterey 12.4 were all able to run Cargo Tracker identically. 

Reviewer 2: is this interesting to readers? It's an important concern from the perspective of your project, but seems like an internal detail that wouldn't concern external users (unless there was an OS it _didn't_ work with). If CT origin with Payara is likely to be of interest to readers, or if we're obligated to to acknowledge it, fine. Otherwise I'd remove it as it seems like a digression from the main idea.

Author: Got it, that makes sense. Removed.

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-map.png[Cargo Tracker Map,width=70%,align="center"]

== Try out Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty 

> Feel free to give Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty a try on your own! Cargo Tracker supports Java SE 8, 11, and 17 — https://developer.ibm.com/languages/java/semeru-runtimes/downloads[IBM Semeru Runtime] is preferred when using Open Liberty. Before cloning the application to your machine, install any required JDKs and ensure that your JAVA_HOME system variable is set to a compatible version. To access the repository remotely you'll need to install https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git[Git] if you haven't already. Finally, you will need to install https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[Maven] to build and run the application. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Feel free to give Cargo Tracker with Open Liberty a try on your own! Cargo Tracker supports Java SE 8, 11, and 17. https://developer.ibm.com/languages/java/semeru-runtimes/downloads[IBM Semeru Runtime] is the preferred Java runtime when using Open Liberty. Before you clone the application to your machine, install any required JDKs and ensure that your JAVA_HOME system variable is set to a compatible version. To access the repository remotely you'll need to install https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git[Git] if you haven't already. Finally, you will need to install https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[Maven] to build and run the application. 
```

You can clone the Open Liberty branch of the Cargo Tracker project to your local machine by running:

[source]
----
git clone https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/cargotracker.git -b liberty-experimental
----

You can also visit the https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/cargotracker/tree/liberty-experimental[ Git repository for the Open Liberty branch of the Cargo Tracker project] to take a peek at the code. 

> To get started, you can use either one of the following setup methods: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started, choose one of the following setup methods: 
```

[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-import.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Import,width=60%,align="center"]

In the next step, select the repository base folder as the root directory and check the pom.xml under the **Maven Projects** tab. Select **Finish** to complete the import process. 

[.img_border_dark]

image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-config.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Configuration,width=60%,align="center"]

If you're working inside the Eclipse IDE, you'll need to install IBM's Liberty Tools feature. Follow the steps in the https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-tools-eclipse/blob/main/docs/installation/installation.md[installation guide] to access some convenient new resources and operations that are specific to Liberty. This https://openliberty.io/blog/2022/08/01/liberty-tools-eclipse.html[blog post] covers the feature's capabilities in more detail, but for now we'll focus on the Liberty Dashboard. 

To run Cargo Tracker, right-click the `cargo-tracker` project and select the **Start...** option, which is second in the list. 
[.img_border_dark]
image::/img/blog/cargo-tracker-eclipse-start.png[Cargo Tracker Eclipse Start,width=60%,align="center"]

> You can then run dev mode with the Open Liberty profile active by typing in `-Popenliberty`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can then run https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/development-mode.html[dev mode] with the Open Liberty profile active by typing in `-Popenliberty`. 
```
